Open Data Government As a Potential Source for Smarter Government: Case Study in Oman	 Masters	 Business Information Technology	Open goverment, democracy, goverment, oman, open data, public	 Over the past several decades, Open Government has become a hot topic in many democratically developed countries. Open Governments aim at increasing transparency, public involvement and strengthen trust among citizens. The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the current situation of open data in Oman and to identify the challenges and issues facing the government in order to utilise the data with a clear strategy. The research methodology adopted in this study is mainly qualitative through the use of interviews.The data is gathered from officials working in Oman government entities. Omani open data policy is reviewed as a secondary source to critically evaluate the clarity of the policy, whether the data is up to data and whether it is following the best practice.	Peter Cruickshank, Jyoti Bhardwaj	 P.Cruickshank@napier.ac.uk, j.bhardwaj@napier.ac.uk 	

An Investigation of Compliance with Privacy by Design in Software Engineering	Masters		 Business Information Technology	Software development		German finance, Privacy, finance,quantitative, qualitative research, German, Germany		The aim of this project was to find out how companies and software development in the German finance industry apply Privacy by Design. Also the practicability of checklists to test for compliance with Privacy by Design was under consideration. The self-assessment checklist for Privacy by Design by Bernsmed (2016) and the eight privacy design strategies and the accompanying patterns by Hoepman (2014) were chosen from the relevant literature as tools to conduct the research. The project was carried out by a using mixed method approach applying quantitative and primarily qualitative research methods. The investigation addressed the following research questions: 1. How is Privacy by Design applied in software development? 2. Which privacy design strategies and patterns do companies apply? 3. What do software developers understand by Privacy (by Design)? 4. How well aligned are the Privacy by Design checklists with practice? Data was gathered from German fin-tech and software development companies in the finance sector using an online survey questionnaire, interviews and a document analysis. The findings are based on 17 completed survey responses, two interviews and the analysis of five privacy policies. The findings show that altogether Privacy by Design is well known and applied within the first few stages of the software development lifecycle. Some privacy design strategies, like hide, separate, inform and demonstrate are quite common, whereas with others, like minimise and control, there is room for improvements. Especially the lack of knowledge about control over one’s data as the definition of privacy is recommended to counteract. The checklist can be quite useful for an internal self-assessment but is not recommended to test for compliance with a holistic Privacy by Design approach as some aspects are omitted. Moreover, the findings were allocated to the different software development lifecycle stages and implications and recommendations were given to companies in the context of a report to management. This work tries to close the gap between literature and practice regarding how Privacy by Design is applied in organisations and provides insights into problems of the implementation thereof. Moreover, first steps in the direction of a best practice guideline are taken and should be further developed in future work.		Peter Cruickshank		P.Cruickshank@napier.ac.uk
